## Shared Decks

You can watch [a video about Shared Decks and Review
Basics](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QS2G-k2hQyg&yt:cc=on) on YouTube.

The easiest way to get started with Anki is to download a deck of cards
someone has shared:

1.  Click the “Get Shared” button at the bottom of the deck list.

2.  When you’ve found a deck you’re interested in, click the “Download”
    button to download a deck package.

3.  Double-click on the downloaded package to load it into Anki, or
    File→Import it.

Please note that it’s not currently possible to add shared decks
directly to your AnkiWeb account. You need to import them with the
desktop program, then synchronize to upload them to AnkiWeb.

Creating your own deck is the most effective way to learn a complex
subject. Subjects like languages and the sciences can’t be understood
simply by memorizing facts — they require explanation and context to
learn effectively. Furthermore, inputting the information yourself
forces you to decide what the key points are, leading to a better
understanding.

If you are a language learner, you may be tempted to download a long
list of words and their translations, but this won’t teach you a
language any more than memorizing scientific equations will teach you
astrophysics. To learn properly, you need textbooks, teachers, or
exposure to real-world sentences.

    Do not learn if you do not understand.
    --SuperMemo

Most shared decks are created by people who are learning material
outside of Anki – from textbooks, classes, TV, etc. They select the
interesting points from what they learn and put them into Anki. They
make no effort to add background information or explanations to the
cards, because they already understand the material. So when someone
else downloads their deck and tries to use it, they’ll find it very
difficult as the background information and explanations are missing.

That is not to say shared decks are useless – simply that for complex
subjects, they should be used as a 'supplement' to external material,
not as a 'replacement' for it. If you’re studying textbook ABC and
someone has shared a deck of ideas from ABC, that’s a great way to save
some time. And for simple subjects that are basically a list of facts,
such as capital city names or pub quiz trivia, you probably don’t need
external material. But if you attempt to study complex subjects without
external material, you will probably meet with disappointing results.
